# Legend of the Kurramoria

A seaside town with a maypole in the center of the town square, atop which a large skull of a sea creature is lashed to the pole with heavy rope. The deep set eye cavities are haunting. As the [[Party]] approaches, there is a low moaning noise that could be the wind, but increases in pitch and frequency as they near the maypole. The [[Party]] learns from the town bartender [[Bound NPC#Norah Banks| Norah]] or [[Roaming NPC#Crab Kid| the crab kid]] the legend of the kurramoria, rare ancient spirits that possess typically docile whales and destroyed fishing ships, which crippled the town's economy until a brave young person (now leader of the town) killed the kurramore whose skull sits atop the maypole. The townsfolk live in constant fear the kurramoria will return, fishing and tourism are stagnate and the town is at risk of disbanding, leaving a large stretch of coast without an accessible port. The gang can choose to go look for the remaining kurramoria or try to leave town, but if they leave town, an enormous kurramore (much bigger than the skull on the maypole) attacks the ship they were to leave on. They can choose to follow the kurramore out to sea in a small sailboat, or overnight in the inn until the next ship arrives tomorrow and leave.

[] If they follow the kurramore to sea, their sailboat runs aground on an uncharted island several miles offshore and they find the skeleton of a druid beneath an arbor of tropical plants. The druid's pack contains a [[Kurramore Druid Journal| journal]] that details the truth of the kurramore skull on the maypole, and why the kurramoria attacked fishing boats.

[] If they overnight at the inn, the townsfolk are a mess while their leader is sowing doubt and despair and superstition about travelers overwhelms them, the [[Party]] are driven out of the town and warned not to return in case their presence attracted the kurramoria.

## Truth of the Kurramore
The kurramoria are extremely endangered and only lay two to three eggs a millenium. Druids have inhabited this island for many centuries, rescuing and recruiting washed up sailors to their cause. They protect and communicate with the kurramoria, who existed in this shoal complex many millenia before the town and port were built, and the reason the kurramoria attacked fishing boats was to defend the new egg laid by one of the pod. The fishing boats trawl through the reef and drop anchor wherever fish are schooling, and they had almost destroyed the kurramore's underwater nest several times. 

Some years ago, a town youth sailed out to the island and met the druid, but instead of listening to them about the nest and the usually docile nature of the kurramoria, the youth decided to go kill a kurramore in a misguided quest for glory and fame. The youth sailed off towards the reef containing the nest and arrived to see the egg had recently hatched, but the adult kurramoria were away guarding the shores of the town and the young kurramore was defenseless. The youth killed the young kurramore without any struggle and after stealing the [[Kurramore Egg Shards]], chummed the water with its blood to draw the adults back towards the reef. They returned to the town with the skull, claiming to have won a great battle against the vicious beast. The townsfolk celebrated and the youth was given the highest seat on the council. 

Because the fishing and tourism had slowed, there were few druid left, so the high druid sent the two young druid to the town to let the townsfolk know of the youth's true actions and help bridge peace between the kurramoria and the town. The youth intercepted the druids sailboat (the sailboat the party used to reach the island) at the port and killed them both, hiding their bodies beneath the dock and lashing the young kurramore skull to the maypole as a warning to the other kurramore to stay away from the town. 

Upon seeing the skull of their young, the kurramoria took up watch at the edges of their shoal complex, keening nonstop in mournful tones that reverberate in the bones of their young. That is what the [[Party]] heard when they first approached the maypole, and their ship was destroyed by the kurramore who laid the egg. The [[Kurramore Druid Journal| journal]] ends with the high druid regretting sending the two young druids to the town, saying they should have gone themselves because now there is no one left to speak for the kurramoria. The [[Party]] can either go back to town with the journal to find the proof and confront the leader, or go back to town with the journal and not say anything. 

[] If they choose to find the proof and confront the leader, the [[Roaming NPC#Crab Kid | crab kid]] helps them find the young druids under the dock and the [[Kurramore Egg Shards]] hidden in the leader's mansion. The townsfolk profusely thank the [[Party]] with free supplies and swear to use the [[Kurramore Druid Journal | druid journal]] to learn to communicate with the kurramoria. 

[] If they choose to not say anything, the leader will be paranoid and suspicious when they return and try to have them assassinated. [[Roaming NPC#Crab Kid| Crab kid]] overhears and comes to warn them, the [[Party]] can either choose to flee or stand and fight, exposing the leader in the ensuing battle to turn the townsfolk against the leader. 